---
title: "Monthly update: April 2017"
tags:
  - monthly-update
parents:
  - "2017/mar/10/monthly-update"
---

## NZ.js

NZ.js was really good! One attendee made [a recap via tweets][nzjs-recap], and
[all the talks][nzjs-talks] are already up and available. If you only have a
little time, I recommend the opening keynote by @rockbot, the closing talk by
@prototypealex, but almost all the other talks were great too, of course.
Almost? Almost. There was definitely **one** that I didn't care for at all, and
maybe a couple others were merely _meh_. But overall? great stuff.

[nzjs-recap]: https://storify.com/knfrances/nz-js-con-wellington-march-2017
[nzjs-talks]: http://conference.javascript.org.nz/schedule/

## Master Kylo

A bit stalled. I've got the material, and the inspiration is there, but the
time is lacking. Most probably going to miss the May 4th goal, but should have
something out by mid-year, I think.

I [tweeted an (intentionally) blurry photo][mk-timeline] of a timeline I put up
on my whiteboard. That was a progress shot: its current state is quite a bit
more complete, but I also can't show it because ***spoilers***.

Black is what I'm using from Canon, boxed names are characters or organisations
I care about (or for context), and correspond to lines showing, by their
proximity, where people/orgs are in relation to others. Purple is the Alternate
Universe parts of my fic, the things that are not Canon. Yes, this fic is
multiple-points-of-departure.

You can't see it because it's so faint, but there's also dates indicated. That
busy middle bit before the vertical line going upwards is the period between 5
and 28 ABY. The leftmost of the board starts at 19 BBY, i.e. the end of Episode
III, and the rightmost lines end around 34 ABY, i.e. Episode VII. I left a bit
of space after that for the actual action of my fic. It's not to scale! There's
some areas that are very expanded, and some where five years take as many
centimetres. I only have so much space.

[mk-timeline]: https://twitter.com/passcod/status/843336749388447744

## Fanfiction

This month, taking a bit of a break, and only keeping up with stories I follow.
