---
title: "Monthly update: May 2017"
tags:
  - monthly-update
parents:
  - "2017/apr/10/monthly-update"
---

I only started writing this update on the 28th April, so it might be a little
shorter than usual.

## Birthday

May 4th was my birthday, which I learned a few years ago coincides with the
(unofficial) Star Wars Day ("May the Fourth be with you"). I turned 24 this
year. I don't really _feel_ twenty-four, but oh well.

## Star Wars fic

I now have a better name, but I don't quite want to reveal it, I think. Due to
conferencing and traveling and [the effect that has on my writing][tw-writing]
as well as a very unfortunate (and frustrating) bout of flu or cold or whatever
in the last week of April, I didn't get as much writing done as I'd hoped.

I have about TK 7k words of material written, but I do have a fairly large
amount of notes and a good outline for two of the four threads in the fic. So
it's not too bad. And now that I'm nearing the final design of this fic (or
have already achieved it? it's hard to tell), it should go much faster.

[tw-writing]: https://twitter.com/passcod/status/857427137925529600

## Play By Play

I went to [Play By Play]! Both the festival (for two of the days) and the
conference. I [tweeted a bunch][tw-pbp]. Honestly, I'm not a game developer. I
think it's something I might want to do later on?

Mostly, I went because I wanted to do something different, it sounded like a
cool event, and I knew there would be some great talks at least. (There were!)

So soon after NZ.js(con), it might have been too much city and crowd at once,
though. I was mostly fine during the festival days, which I spent sometimes at
the expo space and a lot walking around Wellington (eating stuff and drinking
coffee and climbing up Mt Victoria like I try to do everytime I go to Welly),
but on the day of the conâ€¦ I think I blanked out for most of the morning
shuffle, at least until talks started really going. And after the con, I was
definitely frazzled; I was so out of it and wanting _away_ that I walked in
completely the wrong direction for a good kilometre before I realised!

So, I won't be going down to cities and crowdy events for a little bit.

I did get a nice haircut out of it, though.

[Play by Play]: http://playbyplay.co.nz/
[tw-pbp]: https://twitter.com/search?f=tweets&q=%23pbp17%40passcod

## Cargo Watch

I [released Cargo Watch v5.0.0][cw-5]. It's bittersweet because it's kinda
giving up on the original project that made Notify a reality, but I eventually
realised that I really had no interest in implementing and maintaining the
intricacies of process groups and restarting servers on three different
platforms, and that Cargo Watch is a _cargo tool_.

So now we embed [watchexec], which does all the stuff I don't want to do way
better than I would ever have done, and leaves me to crafting a cargo-focused
experienced, with cargo-specific features, and geared precisely at development
workloads and use cases. It feels like a breath of fresh air.

[cw-5]: https://github.com/passcod/cargo-watch/releases/tag/v5.0.0
[watchexec]: https://github.com/mattgreen/watchexec

## Docker on BSD

I briefly attempted to get Docker running on FreeBSD (the native
implementation) in the view of running Kubernetes on FreeBSD on Digital Ocean,
but quickly got disabused of that notion when I tried running trivial
containers and got fatal and critical errors straight out of the gate. So much
for that idea.

## Fanfiction

I'm going on a strong Star Wars (all eras confounded) bender. I avoid Kylo/Rey
(extra ew) and Kylo/Hux fics because ew, and I like time travel fix-it fics.
Mostly I've been impressed at the depth and breadth of the verses crafted, and
the large currency held by Queer-abundant fics. It "makes sense" to have
genderqueer and varied sexualities in a universe where there's several dozen
_species_ cohabiting with each other, among a few _thousand_ worlds (sometimes
the scale of it all boggles the mind), but it's heartwarming every time.

I'll certainly be adding a bunch of references and homages to some of the best
fics out there into _my_ fic, mostly in passing-by references to names and
places. If you've been in the fanficdom, you should be able to pick out a few!

Something that's been interesting to notice is fics and authors that were
influenced by the Re-Entry fanfic epic. You see, in Canon (and Legends)
Coruscant has a 24-hour day. In the Re-Entry fanon, though, Coruscant has a
26-hour day. Well, in many non-Re-Entry fics that should AU from Canon or
Legends, and that state it as such, you get mentions of "25th hour" or "there
isn't more than 26 hours in the day" while in the Coruscanti Jedi Temple (or
elsewhere on planet)!

- {SW Legends} The entire [Re-Entry](https://archiveofourown.org/series/10129) and [Journey of the Whills](https://archiveofourown.org/series/11260) corpus. An epic masterpiece. {50k + 1k + 11k + 37k + 18k + 30k + 32k + 27k + 25k + 23k + 25k + 53k + 55k + 2k + 76k + 16k + 28k + 21k + 24k + 7k + 1k + 1k + 17k + 33k + 3k + 6k + 10k + 33k + 9k + 10k + 6k + 36k + 14k + 6k + 7k + 5k + 8k + 10k + 11k + 13k + 12k + 7k + 7k + 10k + 9k + 19k + 8k + 13k + 13k + 12k + 8k + 13k + 11k + 15k + 12k + 7k + 10k + 9k + 20k + 18k + 11k + 21k + 26k + 20k + 21k + 24k + 27k + 33k + 3k + 79k + 22k + 24k + 33k + 2k + 11k atow}
- {SW} [Sigh No More](https://archiveofourown.org/works/7916152). Very NSFW, a bit too binary, but sweet. {160k words atow}
