---
date: 2018-05-12T15:23:41+12:00
title: Compersion
frontpage: false
tags:
   - rant
   - compersion
   - society
---

Recently I realised it’s not enough to _have_ compersion, you have to exercise it, too.

For those unfamiliar with the term, or those familiar with it but not the usage
I make of it: _compersion_ is that good feeling you get when _others_ you’re
empathetic with feel good. It’s a word that’s often associated and used by
members of polyamorous circles, and might even have been invented there, but
I’m not sure. It has several synonyms; you might know it by another name.

It is often contrasted to _jealousy_. I did, when I was younger. I said that I
did not feel _any_ jealousy, but instead had compersion. I don’t think that’s
true any more. I think both can be felt, and furthermore that both can be felt
at the same time. I also think that _everyone_ can be jealous or comperse, it’s
not a feeling restricted to those who are poly. It certainly is not restricted
to anything sexual, nor romantic.

(And, honestly, everyone has compersion because it’s a very human thing to
have. Some people call it empathy but that’s too large and sounds clinical and
doesn’t really define what it actually means in practical terms. But mostly, we
are increasingly getting into a society, a culture, that normalises jealousy
and makes it the expected thing and tries to get people to do silly things like
_cutivate their hate for other people_ and thus we don’t know what the fuck to
do when someone comes along and says “it’s okay to be happy, really”. I find
utterly ridiculous that we’re getting to a point where love _has_ to be
accompanied by hate to be acceptable and normal, in a “there’s no light without
shadow” kind of thing, when the truth is, you can have light without shadow if
you just remove the bloody obstacles from your way.)

So, I have compersion (more so than others, is what I mean). I’ve known that
for a while, even before I had a word for it, just like I’ve known for a while
I was bi before I knew it was a thing, or poly, before I knew that was okay, or
had lucid dreams, before I found out that it wasn’t common.

But it’s only fairly recently I realised that compersion, and other emotions at
well, benefit from being used and flexed and emphasised, rather like muscles,
memory, intelligence. In the case of compersion, it’s also a rather hedonistic
pursuit:

_Thank_ people. _Tell_ them you love them. _Congratulate_ them. _Support_ them.

They will be more happy for it. Then take that happiness and use it to stroke
your own: they have done good, they deserve to feel good about it, and you have
done good, and you deserve to feel good about it. Feeling good about making
others feel good not only helps you, but it helps them, and it helps itself, as
you will like to do it more.

Even if you don’t feel like it often, I believe you have compersion, even a
tiny little bit of it. Exercise it. Exercise the other way, too: you have to
work to discard the jealousy and hate you hold. You have to increase the light,
but you also have to take down the obstacles in its path.

Your brain is a muscle. Your feelings are too.
