---
date: 2017-09-25T09:48:27+13:00
page: true
title: Intergalactic Express 01
parent: /transcripts
tags:
 - transcript
 - not-saf-for-work
 - podcast
---

This is a very rough transcript of [Intergalactic Express 01][ie1], a podcast
episode on the [Not Saf For Work][nsfw] network. You can find the podcast in its
original audio form at the link above.

The podcast was published on July 1, 2017.

[ie1]: https://notsafforwork.com/podcasts/the-intergalactic-express-01-workshopping-as-we-go/
[nsfw]: https://notsafforwork.com/nsfw-podcasts/

---

[intro song]

S Hello and welcome aboard the Intergalactic Express. I am your host, Saf, and with me are my fellow hosts, Canti

C Hello!

S and Alex

A Hello

S Sit back and buckle up, ... first off, this episode serves not only as an
introduction to the IE, but also an episode zero, of sorts, to the NSFW podcast
network as a whole. Saf — I don't know why I wrote Saf in the notes cause I'm
the peerons talking [laughter] — Saf, aka,

C [inaudible] ...named our podcasts the network "Not Saf Work"

S Oh, well, it's "Not Saf for Work podcast network"

C Yeah

S So, I am Saf, and I started this, this network, with one particular goal of
mine: fostering a ... featureing all sorts of lives ... into their podcasting.
Potential

A ...you said "time and space"

S Yeah, is it...?

A ...it says "space and time"

S Oh, is it? Yeah, I can't even get our own show name right.

...


S We're an adventure theough the spacetime continuum

S Okay, along with the IE, which well go into more depth soon, the network is
lauching with Lasso, a cross-section and disc-based pdocast about all things WW,
hostred with ...

[aww]

S When I was listenng the first episode, I was like "oh my god"

A ...

S Yeah. We need cohost... but not spud

S For the record spud is the cat ALex has at his house and... he's the dumbest
cat I've met. In my entire entire life, Literally.

S Litereally you dorp hgim and he just flops.

A Nooo

S So, no cohost for cats

S We also have Whoa Nesssie, which is a ... mythological creature and creepy
critters. ... I am litterally in love love. I knwo I keep saying I love the
podcasts on my entwork, but I genuinely do, they're all grat

A I would hope that you _would_ like your own podcast

[laughter]

....

...

S We also have Qeueerly THere, which is a shorter format podcast slash love
letters slash rant, about the representaition of queer culture, hosted by ROwan,
a film student and wannabe, though imo, they already are, critic, with lots of
...  Also QT has a reidiculously catchy theme song thata;s lite been stuck in my
haed for like the past three days, because I was editing the podcast and now
it's constantly stck in my haed. It's the worst, but it's amazing

C Yeah

S So catchy, and I love it so much

S So what exactly is the IE? And I am asking that so that I can answer that. We
are

A Please, do tell me

C Yeah, I'd really like to know

A I'm _dying_ to know

S Sure, neither of you know anything about this podcast at all. Honestly

A I'm not... sure what I'm doing here

[laughter]

S This podcast is a wide ... through the media that we love and love to hate and
hate to love. We're gonna talk about games, books, music, podcasts, probably
escape rooms, and be[gone?].

C Oh, yes.

S Whatever we like! ...and we'll all be trying to analyse the creative process
and how exactly these things are created, and the impact of all of these thigns,
from the perspective of trhee writers — that's us; we are all three writers —

A omg, Thanksyou

S Yeah, yeah, by the way, you've got a job now that's you're a writer, I guess

C Nice

S So, I have been talkign way way too much by this point,

.... [5:08]


S So, Canti, introduce yourself, so listeners know who you are

C Allright, um, Hi, I'm Canti, I also go by Ruqiyah, but these guys names me as
Canti and also neither of them can pronounce my name, apparently, so

S I'm so sorry

C I write interactive fiction about relationships, and I really love love escape
rooms, and — ooh, here's a good one: I have a really low standard for what I
read in sci fi, because I grew up reading [Cooisan?]sky, who is horrendously
sexist, and now — [inaudible] can get pretty sexist and I will still enjoy —
which I think is knowing Saf, I'm sure it will come up, because it can be horrible, and
then I'll like "oh yeah, but I quite enjoyed this book"

S Right, and I as far as I'm aware it _will_ come up

C There you go

S Arright. Alex. Talk a little biut about yourslef.

A I would love to.

S I'm so sure

A Yeah. Hey. I'm Alex. This... covers it all.

[laughter]

S I am _not_ hlding him right, just, for the record? I am at the wrong city for
that.

[liught]

A Ah. I just want to stop here and say that [inaudible] should I be investing
in the ...

S No. No, that name is _banned_. It's banned from this podcast.

A Is it actually called that?

S It is. By, like, insucure nerds.

A Cause that sounds like, two separate words, like. um

S It- Yeah, yeah, it does.

A Like, "I want to rock him"

S Yeah. Cause you know , [braown] put in a

[inaudible]

C I'm sending you a link.

A Oooh, I get it bc it's like rob- therr

S But it's not written like that, right, because it's

A No, it's not. But

S/C? Guys just have to make everything about them

C/S? Yeah, jeez alex

S Oh, don't remind me

A Uum. I'm Alex. I'm ss- [inaudible], and me being [inaudible]

S Alittle bit, yeah.

A Um. I have no qualifications.

S Saaame

C You have more qualifications— You both have more qualifications than I do

S Yeah but not in wriitng

A I have a bachelor of arts and creative writing

C Oh, you see, you _do_! You're the only one of us who's qualified

S Omg Alex

C You're the only one qualified to talk about writing

A I am a professional content creator, I am a resteur? I am a poet, um, and I
have really high standards. I just

C See, we're already setting up some good personalities here

S Arright. And. I am Saf. I am a podcaster, a narrative designer, a writer, a
photographer, probably other things. Um

C You're just quoting word for word from your own source biography here, give
people something new!

S Something new... I am a professional partier,

A Get paid to party, do you?

S I don't actually get paid to party. I am a poor writer.

C Yeah, same here.

S I do a lot of things, not all of them pay me unbfortuanely, but I also— no I
do have a new thing to add there, because now I am a podcast director

C Woo!

S Since this episode will be out after the network has launched, so. It will be
a change.

A Can we make that into an acronym?

S Uuh... ..NT?

A That's not what an acronym si. That's an initialism.

S It sure is.

A Um, I feel like maybe it would be a... a podnethector?

S A podnec— hector

A podnethector

S I can't even say it

A Like, it really rlls off the tongue

S Podnet-tech. No.

A A podnettector.

S A pod-detector.

A Yeah.

S You detect pods?

A Well. You nettect pods, I guess

S I can't do this. I can't do this.

A Are you... walking out on the first episode?

S This is the end. I'm cancelling this podcast.

[laighter]

S Yeah. Yeah. I saw this coming. I just didn't think it would be this early.

S So yes. I am Saf, I talk a lot, I write a lot, I am known for my love of Star
Wars and also my hatred for Star Wars, I... I used podcast on makingstarwars.net
podcasting, I have been on the ForceCast, I podcast on the Western Reaches, on
old Western Reaches, yeah — I saw the downfall of Forcecast, I was there, um —
Yeah, I podcast for Western Reaches, Of Dice and Droids, and something, Blaster
Cannon podcast. I podcast on a lot of this basically. I... really like the sound
of my own voice apparently.

C Nice.

S Um, what else can I about myself? I like Star Wars, I talk a lot, that's
basically it. THere's nothing else there. [pause] Oh! Also when it comes to my
tastes, I hate almost every book that I read, and I am really picky about the
games I play, but otherwise, I'm pretty chill.

C So we've got a good mishmash of approaches here, I thnk.

S Yeah, yeah, I think so.

S So. What are some of the things that we could expect from this show, why— no,
this isn't meant to be a question for myself. Okeay I'm gonna do that again.

C Hang n hang on hang on wait wait stop

S Alright

C Okay, so I remember Alex ...

A Of, I rememebr that

S Do you rememebr that? Okay, so I'm going to ask you first, then, are you
ready?

C Oooh

A [laugh] Noo, I don't want to go first

S I will— I'll go first and you can go second, then.

S So, this show, like I said, is going to be talking about a lot of diff stuff
but from the kind of the creative side and the writing kind of side, the
narrative science side, that kind of side. SO it's not like, just reviews of
stuff we like, it is a more in-depth, and also ridiculous, analysis of the
things that we like and hate. Because, we cannot .... for like three minutes
straight.

A Simlutanously in depth and also very shallow

S That's very accureate, yeah.

C That can be our tag line

S I need to write that down or else I'll forget it.

S I have no clue what I was saying before,

C You have to do the what— what we can expect from this show... thing.

S Yeah. That's what I was tring to do, but I have no clue how to do it, but
thank you Canti. So what do we expect from this show? What do we want to talk
about in the future episodes, Saf? Aka myself? Because apparently I am going
first.

S I, genuinely really really really really want to talk about WOlf359,

C Hell yes!

S which is an audio drama that I love and both of these two are listening to,
they are not up to date with it, though Canti is close

C I _was_ up to date very very briefly

S Very briefly, and then they released a bunch of other stuff

C Yess

S It is an amazing audio drama, though, it is my favourite that I listen to, and
I listen to quite a lot, and I love most of them. It is absolutely amazing
storetelling, and I really really want to disect that, and possibly get one of
the people who make it on, at some point in the future, if we can. Uh, that's my
big thing. Also just games in general, cause I really love games.

S Alex, what do you want to talk about in the future of this podcast?

A Myself.

[laughter]

S Fired.

A Ah, fuck.

C Wait, hang on, can I go next, cause Alex has such a good answer, and my answer
is a bit shit and I don't want it to be last.

S Okay.

A Hang on, I thought I was going.

C Yeah, but your answer's good, so, shut up.

A It was— my answer?

C No, your actual answer, that we talked about last time.

S Alright, Canti:

C I um oh.

S Hah, you asked for this.

C Yeah, but I don't actually. I would like to talk about audio dramas, like Saf
just said, um, I'd like to talk about escape rooms, but I like escape rooms, and
I like video games, and there's boatloads of stuff that interact, like fiction
and narrative I'd like to be talking about.

C Well, mostly I'd enjoy spending some quality time with two friends that I
don't see very often.

S Aww.

S Alright, Alex, you gotta match up to that.

C Now it's time for the fancy answer.

A I feel like you don't— like, "Oh Alex is gonna make a really good answer, so
let me go first, so I don't look like I'm not"

C No, no... but, you had this lovely answer about

A Oh yeah. So. I forgot to mention that I'm [inaudible] and so I'm... in a purely
professional way. Um.

A So I'd be really interested in, uh, the, narrative and mechanics of the video
games and politics of games; I play a lot of DnD, so [inaudible] about the
mechanics of DnD, because that's not a boring subject at all. [nervous laugh]
But, you know, so that's one of the things I'd like to talk about. And just how,
like, I feel like food is something that— well, food is something that everyone
needs, and I feel like there's a lot of ways that it's, ah, represented in
media. And that is something is very interesting to me.

S So Alex is a huge nerd.

C We all are, don't pick too much on Alex. I mean, I prefer "dweeb" personally,
I'm a big dweeb

S You _are_ a dweeb

A That's true

C Thank you

S So... is there anything else that either of you want to mention, briefly,
before we cut this short? [pause] "Ctu this short" sounds like I'm ending this
prematurely; I am not.

A Haha, just stop it now... before it gets too hard

S So, that's about us for this episode, like, I said it was an episode zero, we
will be back later this month, with our first full episode discussing...
something that we will decide after this episode is over.

C Woo!

S Don't forget to follow us, subscribe, leave a review, whatever, you can find
us on the main network feed on iTunes, Feedburner, Podbean, hopefully Google
Play soon, I haven't done that because the last time I tried it was down. So
look: podcasts will be up soon. Keep an eye on the twitter, at @nfswpodcasts,
for more info, or sign up to our mailing list, which is our pinned tweet on the
twitter, for the record, if you want to follow the main feed, I did not change
its name: it is Not Saf For Work, which is Not Safe For Work without the E, both
this launch podcast podcast will be out on that main feed today, and the Lasso,
which is the WOnder WOman podcast, is already out, and it has its own feed, so
go listen to that there as well.

S Canti, where can people find you online?

C Well I tweet at @cantiantics. That's about it.

S Arright. Alex, where can people find you online?

A Great question! Uh. I guess you can find me on twitter, at @PriceOfJunes
{pronounced Ju-Nes, –tr.} Like, the plural of the month. That was a [inaudible],
don't judge me. Or on instagram, at @heroesfeast, like the spell in Dragon
[inaudible].

C I haven't played that, and... can you spell that?

A It's the plural of hero, feast.. oh, fine. H E R O E S F E A S T.

A And on Wordpress at incendiarysm, so that's like the word incendiarism but
there's a Y instead of the last I.

C Can you spell that as well?

A Look, I can't just spell everything.

C It's I N C. E N D. I A R. Y S M.

A That's the one.

S That's the one. Alex _must_ make everything a puzzle for everyone, what

A Well, no, it's— the original spelling was taken

S So you can find me on twitter at @Wanderlustin, you can also find my writing
as Tosche Station, and sometimes on MakingStarWars dot... net?, uh, oh my god I should
know my own websites' addresses. If you google Tosche Station or Making StarWars
you'll find both of the websites. You can also find me podcasting at Rogue
Podron, Western Reaches, Blaster Cannon, Of Dice and Droids, and now on this
podcast.

C I just wanted to say that I love both of you and I love everybody who's been
listening through this episode, if you're out there, I love you too.

S Aww

A That's a lot of love

S That's a lot of love

C A little

A I don't love any of you

C That's fair.

S Canti balances out my bitterness and Alex's sourness

S So thank you for listening, and we hope you enjoyed our ride on the
intergalactic express Choo choo

C Choo Choo

[theme song]
