---
# vim: tw=80
title: "Monthly Update: September 2018"
tags:
  - monthly-update
parents:
  - "2018/aug/10/monthly-update"
---

## Medical

I got some dental surgery done at long last early this month, and the recovery
was somewhat longer than I'd thought, which didn't help with projects. I'm all
good now, though! (And two teeth lighter.)

## Watchexec

This month I volunteered to take on the [Watchexec] project, to ensure that pull
requests and issues and new features would be finally tackled. Matt Green, the
project's originator and principal author up til now, has recently gotten more
busy at work and most importantly, become a first-time parent. Congratulations
to him! That did mean that there was no more time for the project.

I spent a few evenings reviewing the entire source and looking through all
issues and pull requests, then made my first release on Sunday 19th. I hope to
work through more of the issues as we go through, but I am very aware that this
is yet another project on top of my stack of already pending stuff, so I'm
pacing myself with a lot of care.

## Notify

Notify advances slowly. This is mostly a matter of time, now: most of the
framework is ready and awaits only filling up the gaps.

I am getting very interesting snapshots of futures 0.3 and the async/await
support in Rust itself, which could mean improved ergonomics and better
development. In the meantime, though, I'm keeping with what I have.

The Rust inotify wrapper has recently gained a rewrite to use futures and Tokio
Reform, which might make it a lot easier to integrate, although it may be that
the access I require for the Backend is too advanced for the nicely-wrapped
version. To be seen.

## 10 minutes

My star wars fanfic is stalled!

...no, it's not. It's just that with everything else, I thought I would get the
chance to work at the chapter last month, but I didn't. So it's still getting
pushed away to the next opportunity.

## Fanfiction

