---
# vim: tw=80
title: "Monthly Update: July 2017"
tags:
   - monthly-update
parents:
   - "2017/jun/10/monthly-update"
---

## List

I watched [Neil Gaiman speaking to students][commencement-speech] last week, and
it reminded me that I did have specific things I've wanted to do forever. Unlike
Gaiman, though, I've never noted them anywhere, so I'll search my memories and
write them down here as I find them again:

 - I want to invent something.
 - I want to publish a scientific paper.
 - I want to forge a blade.
 - I want to travel to Antarctica.
 - I want to pilot a glider.
 - I want to learn a martial art.
 - I want to build a giant machine.
 - I want to live in a lighthouse for a bit.
 - I want to publish a novel.

Okay, so they're a bit more like dreams. Still, I think I could get to achieve
at least some of them in the next few decades!

[commencement-speech]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ikAb-NYkseI

## End of a job

This has been a very _very_ busy month, and absolutely exhausting. Due to the
large amounts of operational knowledge I had accumulated without opportunity to
pass it on at my last job, as well as no less than **three** last minute
large-scale migrations that I needed to be part of to ensure a smooth move (I
hope!), I spent my last month at McKay flat out trying to document and finish
everything right up to my last day.

I was very happy to be done with it all!

## Start of a new one

I started at Uber (not the taxi company) last week. It's going well! There's a
lot — and I do mean a _lot_ — of technical details which I'm going to have to
get my head around, including a whole bunch of protocols and acronyms I only
have a vague grasp on.

On a human level, there's two things I'm really happy about with this new job,
although it _is_ subject to confirmation as I work there longer.

Externally, it is astoundingly refreshing and comfortable to work with someone
who _knows their shit_, and makes similar jumps of thought when reasoning about
code and problems.

Internally, I am no longer stressed the fuck up and in _two days_ that has
had noticeable effects on my tiredness and well-being, despite technically
working longer hours. Also, I now have a flexible hour-long lunch, and holy shit
is this nice. It took me a bit to break the habit to have a fast lunch, but now
I take the entire hour to walk to the Town Basin (a kilometre away), have lunch
there, watching the boats and _passants_, and walk back. Awesome.

On a project level, I can't really say because I haven't seen enough yet, but
what little I _have_ leads me to believe that there is _so much fucking
potential_ and that while there will be some tedium as we work with a massive
codebase with a decade of history in its commits, there's many interesting
things to be done.

From the outset, I expect to stay at Uber for one or two years, and I very much
expect to leave the system in a better place. I'm excited about this!

## Much writing

I'm nearly finished with the full first draft of the first story in the "In The
Darkness of Dawn" universe Star Wars fanfic. This one is also canon-compliant,
ignoring some small references to future dawnverse stories, and stands fairly
well alone even if you've only seen the films.

Once done, I'll do one or two editing passes myself, before either publishing
outright or finding some advance/beta readers for more feedback.

As of yet, there is no title. The working title is **Naema**, from the second
main character and OC, but that might change before publication.

## Fanfiction

Works I recommend will now be **bolded**, and I've gone back to all other
Monthly Updates to highlight recommendations there, too.

 - {HP/Thor/Dr Who} [Of Wizards and Heroes](https://archiveofourown.org/works/4148136).

   This was great! Perfectly suited to a fresh start in fanfic after three weeks
   not reading anything new. Humour and epic battle, with a last-minute third
   crossover adding yet another dimension to an already
   bendingly-parallel-worlds story. {94k words}

 - {HP} [Whispers in Corners](https://archiveofourown.org/works/1134255). {64k words}
 - {HP/Merlin} [Emrys Ascending](https://archiveofourown.org/works/932981). {111k words}
 - {HP/Thor} [Spellist](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5366507). {2k words}

 - {HP} [Don't Fuck With Florists (They'll Fuck You Up)](https://archiveofourown.org/works/7769080).

   Not usually a genre of fanfic I read, but in some ways it works? A flurry of
   others like it below, before I went back to more class stuff. {14k words}

 - {HP} [no place like home](https://archiveofourown.org/works/4308786). {13k words}
 - {HP} [love is touching souls (surely you touched mine)](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5937535). {34k words}
 - {HP} [Newts](https://archiveofourown.org/works/6093769). {14k words}
 - {HP} [Temptation on the Warfront](https://archiveofourown.org/works/4373594). {180k words}
 - {HP} [Reparatio](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5987962). {17k words}

 - {HP} [Stealing Harry](https://archiveofourown.org/works/987408).

   Good and sweet. _Very_ old fic, early 2000s according to the notes, but it
   survived this long, hmm? Some sequels below. {100k words}

 - {HP} [Russian Literature](https://archiveofourown.org/works/991387). {3k words}
 - {HP} [Fever Dream](https://archiveofourown.org/works/991389). {3k words}
 - {HP} [The Birds, The Bees, And The Snakes](https://archiveofourown.org/works/991396). {3k words}
 - {HP} [A Lesson In Hiding](https://archiveofourown.org/works/991398). {2k words}
 - {HP} [Bullfinch's Mythology](https://archiveofourown.org/works/991401). {4k words}
 - {HP} [Laocoon's Children Year One: The Philosopher's Stone](https://archiveofourown.org/works/992265). {88k words}
 - {HP} [Caramel](https://archiveofourown.org/works/992288). {1k words}
 - {HP} [Laocoon's Children Year Two: Secret Tongues](https://archiveofourown.org/works/992558). {104k words}

 - {HP} **[Of a Linear Circle - Part I](https://archiveofourown.org/works/11284494) and [Part II](https://archiveofourown.org/works/11431794)**.

   That was delightful. While the disappearance of Harry isn't yet resolved, and
   honestly at this point feels a bit too much like a convenient way to get the
   main plot out of the way so we can explore Nizar's in peace, _I really don't
   mind_. Nizar — and the story — is sweet and quietly humourous. Heartily
   recommended. {107k + 23k words atow}

 - {HP} [Harry Potter and the Stone of Life](https://archiveofourown.org/works/11096073). {7k words atow}
 - {HP} [Third Life](https://archiveofourown.org/works/11163318). {49k words atow}
 - {Naruto/HP} [Curses of Interest](https://archiveofourown.org/works/10603038). {53k words atow}
 - {HP} [The Little Lion Cub Who Could](https://archiveofourown.org/works/10754460). {8k words atow}
 - {HP} [Eclipse](https://archiveofourown.org/works/993712). {4k words}

 - {HP} **The Alexandra Quick series: [Thorn Circle](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/3964606/1/Alexandra-Quick-and-the-Thorn-Circle), [Lands Below](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/4684861/1/Alexandra-Quick-and-the-Lands-Below), [Deathly Regiment](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/5784632/1/Alexandra-Quick-and-the-Deathly-Regiment), [Stars Above](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/7689884/1/Alexandra-Quick-and-the-Stars-Above)**.

   Set in the Harry Potter verse, but ten years after Voldie's death, and set in
   America. Does not really mention Britain or Harry or any of them. Besides the
   story itself, which is excellent, the context of wizarding prejudices and
   house-elves within the wider context of America's deep history and current
   affairs with racism, corruption, police/authority violence and routine
   violation of the very laws they are supposed to defend, paints a chilling
   universe that left me uneasy throughout my read. On top of that, the quiet
   horror of schooling practices that reflects, no doubt, their non-magical
   counterparts in our reality only serves to reinforce the idea that there is
   something fundamentally _wrong_ with that country, and magic does not help.
   A recommended read, albeit with warnings. {166k + 235k + 204k + 262k words}
