---
# vim: tw=80
title: "Monthly Update: October 2017"
tags:
  - monthly-update
parents:
  - "2017/sep/10/monthly-update"
---

## Night-mode improvement

Got an idea as I was thinking about putting glow-in-the-dark stars up my
ceiling, and it turned out to be a great success at little effort! If you switch
this blog to Night mode by clicking the tiny button in the bottom left corner,
you'll see what I mean.

That was done by finding a high-res picture of the night sky, then modifying
curves to eliminate all the variation in black and dark blues, and converting
all black in alpha. Then some touch up work was done to eliminate as much as
possible blue and red halos around some galaxies that were visible on a white
background. Finally, I used GIMP's seamless tiling algorithm tool to generate
the tile and layered it using CSS.

## Writing

### This blog

After doing some quick calculations, I found out that if I write about three
thousand more words in this blog before the end of the year, I'll have written
more in this blog this year than _all prior years combined_! Now that's a pretty
fun goal.

I achieved this handily when I did experiments around [transcripts] later on.

[transcripts]: /tag/transcript

### Naema

Writing has been slower than usual, which is perhaps pushing back the end date.

I have been having difficulties reconciling Leia's character with how I portray
her in the one interaction that's really important in this fic, my plans for the
story warring with who she is verily. I think I've got it now, but Leia is
definitely the hardest character I've had to write about.

I've been writing and thinking a lot more about Thabeskan culture and history,
as that is an important part of the interactions between my two protagonists.
That may have caused a slight change of structure and that in turn may push back
completion, but oh well. So long as it improves the story…

## Fatso

This month, [Fatso] also declared they were shutting down. Fatso has been a
stalwart of these past years at this house, and it brought us a vast and diverse
set of films even when we couldn't afford downloading or streaming movies in the
early times when the internet was capped and even slower than it is now. We'll
miss it, even though we weren't watching as many DVDs recently, having
diversified the sources of films we were getting. However, Fatso was the only
way to get non-mainstream or foreign films, especially French (with original
soundtrack) as well as many niche films from Latin America and the Middle East.
Those are lost to us for now, unless and until we find another way. So thank you
Fatso! We loved you.

[Fatso]: http://www.fatso.co.nz/

## Cogitare

After much gnashing of teeth (I swear _a lot_ when I'm coding), I've finally put
[Cogitare] together in a way that works decently well and looks good. It's
usable now, even though there are a number of issues with the UI that I want to
fix.

During the next week or two, I'm going to finish that, write an import + admin
interface, hook up the IRC bot, then prepare for NaNoWriMo by loading up a bunch
of prompts and seeds and deleting the awful from the ones I have currently.

[Cogitare]: https://cogitare.nz

## Fanfiction

 - {SW} **[firefly](https://archiveofourown.org/works/9164014)**.

   Sweary grumpy grampa-figure R2 is the best. {4k words}

 - {SW} [landfall](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5600413). {6k words}
 - {SW} [‘Balance’ series](https://archiveofourown.org/series/131172). {123k words atow}
 - {SW} [Two Hands to Make the World](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5687815). {27k words}
 - {SW} [when love explodes](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5793757). {1k words}
 - {SW} **[Precipice](https://archiveofourown.org/works/8270582)**. {114k words atow}

 - {SW} [per ardua ad astra](https://archiveofourown.org/works/9223013).

   If you thought Rogue One was tough, emotionally… maybe keep away.
   {67k words atow}

 - {SW} [Echoes of Mortis](https://archiveofourown.org/works/6082215). {67k words atow}
 - {SW} [I Can't Actually Post The Name of This Fic Here Because It Isn't Clean](https://archiveofourown.org/works/7348051). {7k words atow}
 - {SW} [Changeling Children](https://archiveofourown.org/works/6420604). {3k words}
 - {SW} [‘The Suns of Tatooine’ series](https://archiveofourown.org/series/345257). {85k words}
 - {SW} [Imagine Something Of your Very Own](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5549042). {24k words}
 - {SW} [‘without knowing how, or when, or where‘ series](https://archiveofourown.org/series/738735). {11k words atow}
 - {SW} [‘Open Fire’ series](https://archiveofourown.org/series/597679). {15k words atow}
 - {SW} [Circumnavigating The Stars](https://archiveofourown.org/works/6391396). {10k words atow}
 - {SW} [your love (will be safe with me)](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5694505). {2k words}
 - {SW} [The One Where Barriss Is A Model Padawan And It's Kind Of Freaking Everyone Out](https://archiveofourown.org/works/3947530). {7k words}
 - {SW} [‘Nobody Wins’ series](https://archiveofourown.org/series/445195). {39k words atow}
 - {SW} [They were at Mos Bina (Come and see)](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5896798). {6k words}
 - {SW} **[Twin Sunrise](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5162474)**. {289k words atow}
 - {SW} [‘The Tatooine Cycle’ series](https://archiveofourown.org/series/8580). {13k words}
 - {SW} [‘Three’ series](https://archiveofourown.org/series/385267). {114k words atow}
 - {SW} [The Street Enters the House](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5660950). {4k words}
 - {SW} [from the ashes we rise](https://archiveofourown.org/works/2250321). {4k words}
 - {SW} [Accidental Timeshare](https://archiveofourown.org/works/1617767). {6k words atow}
 - {SW} [We Shall All Be Healed](https://archiveofourown.org/works/7103770). {30k words atow}
 - {SW} [‘Ripples’ series](https://archiveofourown.org/series/437479). {11k words atow}
 - {SW} [There Goes The Atmosphere](https://archiveofourown.org/works/3799492). {69k words atow}
 - {SW} [A Big Deal in the Resistance](https://archiveofourown.org/works/7452109). {15k words}

 - {HP} **[Swung by Serafim](https://archiveofourown.org/works/9821300)**.

   Another masterpiece by flamethrower.
   {352k words}

 - {SW} [the sharp edge of survival](https://archiveofourown.org/works/8941432). {4k words}
 - {SW} [Trading Favours](https://archiveofourown.org/works/10738146). {7k words}
 - {SW} [The One That Got Away](https://archiveofourown.org/works/9496871). {35k words atow}
 - {SW} [Möbius](https://archiveofourown.org/works/1514531). {6k words}
 - {SW} **[The Weeds in the Wilderness](https://archiveofourown.org/works/6731101)**. {144k words atow}

 - {SW} [‘**A Pile Of Bones**’ series](https://archiveofourown.org/series/647381).

   (Warning: so much medically graphic shit.)
   {51k words atow}

 - {SW} [High Stakes](https://archiveofourown.org/works/6819610). {1k words}
 - {SW} [For the Right Price](https://archiveofourown.org/works/11021901). {70k words atow}
 - {SW} [Fives Saves the Galaxy](https://archiveofourown.org/works/9060316). {25k words}

## Films

 - [Pork Pie](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pork_Pie_%28film%29).
   _Matt Murphy_ (Twice!)

